Good time to check in as how enraged
am I a Tailwind at the moment?
[LAUGH] It definitely is, it's challenging
to what people think that
how we should do CSS.
But I'll tell you that I think it
does help, It helps me go fast,
particularly when I'm
prototyping something.
But here's the trade off here.
These class names are unruly, right?
These get kinda long.
And as you might imagine,
this is not that long.
[LAUGH] They can get significantly longer.
As you guessed here,
this number represents the lightness.
Actually, 100 being the lightest, and
then 900 being the darkest version of it.
via is a middle stop.
So, I mean, just to demonstrate,
you could have made this
go via-cyan-count, it does.
Then you get this just sack of goodness.
[LAUGH]
But it's the middle stop, right?
If you're familiar with gradients, you can
put stops in them, that's what via is.
Margin-bottom, width-full, right,
you can also do like width, dash,
yeah, 6 or something like that.
There's a various different
ways of doing that.
text-center, center the text,
padding, all that kind of stuff.
And then text-6xl,
you can do small, medium, large,
xl, double xl, up to 9xl,
that's the largest, and then hover.
So if you look here, when we hover,
it goes a little darker.
It's probably kinda hard
to see on my screen, but
you can probably see it on yours.
The way that you do that is with these
hover: whatever you wanna add, right?
So you could do hover,
I think, does it text,
I gotta remember, text-, is it underline?
Anyway, you can do whatever you want.
I'd have to go look up
how you do underline.
But anything that you put under hover
will only be applied on hover states.
So this is a terrible idea, but right now
it only centers when you hover over it.
I think focus is one of them as well,
there's several of them.
>> People are saying they were having
a hard time, given it's showing up.
And this solution seems to be deleting
the Parcel build and the dist.
Or some peoples were saying holding Shift
and then hitting Refresh worked for them.
>> Sure, yeah, so if you're having
a hard time at this point doing it,
I'll show you how to do a full rebuild.
If you really wanna let go totally
nuclear and just do everything,
remove .parcel-cache, parcel-cashe
dist node-modules, and
then run npm install again.
So I would do that, that's gonna take
a second cuz there's a lot of packages.
npm install, That'll take
a second to reinstall everything.
And then you can do npm run dev again,
it might take a second for
it to get started because it's
having to do a full rebuild.
Then go over here, I would say just
close the tab that you're on, and
then open it again.
And that should get you
into a better state.
>> Do you have a huge style.css now
that you're including Tailwind?
>> I mean,
look at what it's including here.
It's probably a development build,
but let's see what's in it.
It's 8.91 kilobytes at the moment.
The idea with Tailwind,
is obviously we have width one, width two,
width three,
all the purveyors' different permutations.
But because of the way that PostCSS and,
Tailwind and React and Parcel all work
together, when you actually build this for
production, you're only including the
styles that you're actually using, right?
So for example, you can see my code here,
I'm not using p5 anywhere, right?
So when I build this for production,
p5 will not be included in my file,
in my final style sheet.
In theory, your CSS should be much
smaller, significantly smaller.
And it has a logical max in terms of
if you use literally every piece of
Tailwind CSS, it still can
only be a certain size, right?
Because it cannot expand
beyond a certain size.
Whereas, I remember when I worked at
LinkedIn, our CSS was two megabytes.
Yep, that was a whole another story.
Anyway, I got a bit of trauma
coming up there for just a second.
[LAUGH] You can't hit that with Tailwind,
right?
Tailwind has a logical max of how
much CSS I can actually ever include.
So, in general, I would say that
your Tailwind build should be
much smaller than normal builds of CSS.
The question is just how well
does your current CSS zip?
My guess is not well,
[LAUGH] even if it's maximized,
Tailwind can probably beat it, yeah.
>> Could you contrast Tailwind versus
Bootstrap and some of the other options?
>> Emotion.
>> Yeah,
that actually bears talking about.
So let's start with Tailwind versus
Emotion and styled-components and
JSX styles and all those various different
permutations of CSS and JS libraries.
In Complete Intro to React version 5, so
that would be Intermediate React v1,
I taught Emotion.
And before Emotion I taught
styled-components, which are both awesome
libraries, I actually know both
of the authors really well.
I was literally just texting with
Kai right before I came up here and
started talking,
who is the creator of Emotion.
They're awesome, they're super useful,
tons of companies are still using them.
So I'm just showing you one of the various
different approaches to CSS and React.
But there's lots of really valid
reasons to use the other ones.
Emotion and styled-components, which are
very similar in terms of their approach,
I'm fine if you choose
either one of those to use.
In general, I tend to use a Emotion more,
it's just because it's the one
I'm more habituated to using.
But styled-components,
especially recently,
has really upped their game,
it's a great library.
If you have a lot of programmatic
manipulation of your CSS,
you need your JavaScript to
be managing your CSS a lot,
that's where Emotion and
styled-components really, really shine.
Because they've moved all of
that to the JavaScript layer,
which allows you to basically then
use React to manipulate it, right?
Whereas here,
we're just putting tags, right?
We can control what tags go in there,
right?
And that would work just as well.
But if you wanna do computation of color
and hue and saturation and lightness and
things like that, that's where something
like Emotion and styled really shine.
Whereas something like Tailwind is
a lot harder to achieve that with.
It's not a typical use case, right?
I'm totally fine as well if you just
choose, why I like Emotion anyway,
it's a totally fine way of doing code.
So Tailwind, Emotion, styled-components,
all achieve the same thing
with different approaches.
I think that's kinda what
I want to say about that.
But they're still just tools
to use to write styles,
they're just different methodologies.
Something like Bootstrap, and
there's lots of them out there now,
things that are similar to Bootstrap.
Bootstrap is one that I used for a good
chunk of my career, particularly when I
was a lot earlier, like Bootstrap 2 and
before, it's a style system, right?
So they say, all right,
here's your input control,
here's your modal, here's your jumbotron.
Here's all those kind of
various different things, and
it's premade components that you just
put the components on your page.
These are awesome, if you don't really
care what your website looks like, and
you just need it to look generally nice,
right?
So I'll use the example
of a company intranet.
You don't want it to look like this,
where it's just someone just throwing
out HTML and style tags on the page.
But you want it to be laid out nicely or
something like that.
Use Bootstrap, dear God, do not write that
CSS yourself, there's no reason to, right?
You don't need to look on brand for
your company,
you just need it to be readable and
useful, and it looks plenty nice.
The reason why I say don't put that on
maybe your production consumer facing
website is, there was a hot second in the
industry where every site looked exactly
the same, because everyone used Bootstrap.
Every company used Bootstrap,
present company included, I did.
We used it at Reddit,
we used it at Needle,
which is the company that
I worked at before Reddit.
Everybody used Bootstrap,
it was the hotness at the time, right?
Eventually it was like, hey, maybe
all websites shouldn't look the same.
It was a novel thought at the time.
And so that's when people kind
of moved away from Bootstrap.
But that's when you wanna use Bootstrap is
when you just need something to look nice
and you wanna be quick about it.
Okay, yeah, I think I'm pretty
satisfied with that answer.
Cool, other questions?
All right.
So I showed you hover, but
there's also disabled is another
one that you can put here.
So if something's disabled,
it'll do something different.
Focus, right,
which is different than hover.
Stuff like that.